# Lego-Robot
##Java Files on GitHub:
####AvoidObjects.java
This program was originally designed to avoid the closest distances but has been modified to now move towards the closest distance, the name is deceiving.  This program first uses the distance sensor to scan the room, a full 360 degrees, and will find the closest distance from all of the measurements.  Once the closest distance has been found it will rotate the robot however many degrees it needs to face that direction and begin to move forward some amount of centimeters and then will repeat the process.
####BumpTest.java
This program is to test out the capability of the bump sensor and bump sensor build I created on the front of the robot.  All this program will do is start the robot moving forward but as soon as the bump sensor is triggered, which means the robot hit something in front of it, the robot will back up a couple centimeters and then pick a random angle.  This angle will be behind the robot, between 110 and 170.  Once the angle is picked the robot will rotate to that angle, now facing away from the object it hit and move forward till another frontal collision.
####ColorSearch.java
This program was designed to create a scenario where the robot is sent on a “search and rescue” mission.  There would be a yellow piece of paper, our marker, and place it on the floor randomly.  The robot will then move in a square spiral constantly scanning the floor with the color sensor to see if it has run over the marker.  If the robot runs over the marker the robot will stop where it is at.
####ColorSensorTest.java
This program was just created to test the power of the color sensor.  The color has various modes and this program tested each one while displaying the sensor output on the robot’s display.  The most effective mode was the ColorId mode which can be called by using the .getColorId().  This just uses java’s built in color int values.
####DistanceSensorTest.java
This program was created to test the power of the ultrasonic distance sensor.  This sensor has two modes: listen and distance.  I focused on the power of the distance sensor.  One thing to note when using the distance sensor if the distance is larger than 2m it will read as infinity as the measurement.
PilotTesting.java – This program was used to experiment with the DifferentialPilot class.  The reason why this class is so important is that you can create a robot object.  Meaning that when you want to tell the robot to go forward, instead of telling the two motors separately to move (which will cause some offset with the motors) you can just do the command .forward() and it will move more accurately.  Now the pilot class has other useful methods and I was really focusing on the parameters when making the DifferentialPilot class to see how that affects the rotation problem I was facing.

##Robot Notes/Tips:
*	ALWAYS use a DifferentialPilot object.  It will make your life x10 easier when performing robot commands.
*	With the Color Sensor, you need to find that “sweet” spot where the sensor is close enough to the ground or object but at the same time letting enough light in to make a distinction between colors.
*	With the current set up with the Ultrasonic sensor, make sure that after you rotate the sensor at all make sure you rotate it back, the opposite way you rotated it the first time, to avoid the wire getting completely wound up.
*	The way most sensors work in terms of getting the actually measurements from is by using something called, a SampleProvider.  Normally you set your SampleProvider object to your sensor’s mode.  Ex: SampleProvider sp = sensor.getDistanceMode().  This example the sensor would be the EV3UltraSonicSensor object.  From this SampleProvider you can use the .fetchSample() function to pull out the array of measurements and store it into your own array object.
*	When constructing anything on the robot you are going to need to make sure you support it with multiple connectors.  If you don’t you run the risk of whatever structure you are building to have the ability to rotate/hang from the robot which sometimes you may want but for most things you don’t.
*	My last point is DO NOT take apart any of the current sensor structures without making sure you really study how they are built and WHY they are built that way.  It took me a long time and my different models till I found the ones that worked perfectly for the needs of the program.
